# Milestone 6 - Mapping

In this final Milestone, you will learn how mapping can be done using common sensors and will get hands-on experience of creating your own maps that can be used in the navigation stack you previously built. 

### Learning Goals

After completing this milestone, you will be able to

* Describe different mapping methods and choose the appropriate one for a given situation.
* Explain the difference between topological and discretized maps, and list examples of each in common use.
* Demonstrate mapping in simulation.

## Explore Mapping Packages

### Prerequisites

Although the following packages were already covered in the previous Milestones, we strongly recommend that you review them:
* ROS [rosbag](http://wiki.ros.org/rosbag/Tutorials) as it will be the main tool that you will use to record sensor data.
* ROS [map_server](http://wiki.ros.org/map_server) which handles map data I/O. This time, pay extra attention to the usage of 'map_saver' command.

### Laser-based Mapping  

[SLAM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simultaneous_localization_and_mapping) has been a very popular approach to mapping in the robotics realm. ROS has multiple well-supported implementations of SLAM which you will use in this Milestone. 

We have two options for you:
1. [gmapping](http://wiki.ros.org/gmapping) is one of the most well-known SLAM packages in ROS, it is well supported in the ROS version we are using in this course. You can learn more by following [this ROS tutorial](http://wiki.ros.org/cn/slam_gmapping/Tutorials/MappingFromLoggedData).
2. [hector_slam](http://wiki.ros.org/hector_slam) is another SLAM algorithm that only uses sensor data to achieve localization and mapping. The tutorial on map construction included in [this link](http://wiki.ros.org/hector_slam/Tutorials/MappingUsingLoggedData) still suggests use of ROS indigo, you will need to make sure you use Melodic version of the packages. 

## Milestone Evaluation and Acceptance Criteria

To demonstrate that you have completed this Milestone, you need to be able to show (through a screen share) that you can:
* Launch your navigation stack along with Gazebo and Rviz.
* Launch a mapping package of your choice along with your regular navigation stack.
* Show that the critical components of your navigation stack are setup properly via ROS commands such as rosgraph and rosnode.
* Show that you can collect LRF sensor data of your simulation environment and construct a map with the data collected.
* Show that you can load the new map and visualize it on Rviz. 
* Perform a navigation task on the new map.
* Answer a question about the ROS architecture you are running for this Milestone DEMO.

The assessment will be time limited, so make sure your local machine is properly set up in advance, and have at least four terminal windows open and ready to execute ROS commands.  You may use written sources (including internet searches) to answer the questions, but the time limitations will not permit extensive searching and reading.  It will be possible to answer the questions in a sentence or two.