# Milestone 5 - Planning

In the last Milestone, you have learned how to localize your robot in a simulation environment. Now you should be ready to study how navigation works for your robot and to know what considerations you need to make while navigating. 

### Learning Goals

After completing this milestone, you will be able to

* List the goals and limitations of planning components of a robot system.
* Describe and differentiate properties of high (mission), intermediate (behavioural)  and low (local) level planning, or perhaps some other decomposition of planning.
* Demonstrate robot navigation in simulation.

## Step 1: Build and Integrate Planners

### Understanding the Framework

As previously introduced in the [navigation stack setup tutorial](http://wiki.ros.org/navigation/Tutorials/RobotSetup), it is important to understand a few ROS packages:
* ROS [nav_core](https://wiki.ros.org/nav_core) as it contains key interfaces for the navigation stack.
* ROS [move_base](http://wiki.ros.org/move_base) as it lets you move a robot to desired positions using the navigation stack. 
* ROS [map_server](http://wiki.ros.org/map_server) which handles map data I/O.

### Working with Planners

Once you have studies the previous section, it is time to try to put these packages together and navigate your robot. With your navigation stack properly set up and Gazebo Simulation running, you should be able to build a planner plugin by following [this tutorial](http://wiki.ros.org/navigation/Tutorials/Writing%20A%20Global%20Path%20Planner%20As%20Plugin%20in%20ROS).

In this tutorial you will notice the example was using a Turtlebot, you will need to replace the Turtlebot with your own robot configurations. 


## Step 2: Explore different Planners

There are many types of planners available for robot navigation, we list a few common planners in this section for you to explore.

### Open Motion Planning Library (OMPL)

OMPL contains implementations of many sampling-based algorithms such as PRM, RRT, EST, SBL, KPIECE, SyCLOP, and several variants of these planners. 
Relevant resources including demos/tutorials can be found in [this webpage](http://ompl.kavrakilab.org/)

### Stochastic Trajectory Optimization for Motion Planning (STOMP)

Stochastic Trajectory Optimization for Motion Planning (STOMP) is a probabilistic optimization framework (Kalakrishnan et al. 2011), the paper can be found [here](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/221078155_STOMP_Stochastic_trajectory_optimization_for_motion_planning). It can plan smooth trajectories for a robot arm, avoiding obstacles, and optimizing constraints. 

Although it might not be very useful for your robot and simulation setup so far, feel free to learn more about it and try out the demo by following [links on this page](http://wiki.ros.org/stomp_motion_planner).

### Search-Based Planning Library (SBPL)

SBPL is a library for planning with heuristic search (e.g., A* search and its variants). You can find its [source repo here on GitHub](https://github.com/sbpl/sbpl). 

### Covariant Hamiltonian Optimization for Motion Planning (CHOMP)

Covariant Hamiltonian optimization for motion planning (CHOMP) is a novel gradient-based trajectory optimization procedure that makes many everyday motion planning problems both simple and trainable (Ratliff et al., 2009c). More information can be found at [this ROS page](http://wiki.ros.org/chomp_motion_planner).

## Milestone Evaluation and Acceptance Criteria

To demonstrate that you have completed this Milestone, you need to be able to show (through a screen share) that you can:
* Launch your navigation stack along with Gazebo and Rviz.
* Show that you can load and use one of the maps given. 
* Launch your global planner and/or local planner, and show it/them on ROS graph.
* Execute commands which demonstrate the communication between nodes/services in your project. 
* Show on Gazebo GUI and Rviz that your robot can publish a goal and let your robot reach that goal by itself.
* Execute a command to perform a ROS task which we will specify.
* Answer a question about the ROS architecture you are running for this Milestone DEMO.

The assessment will be time limited, so make sure your local machine is properly set up in advance, and have at least four terminal windows open and ready to execute ROS commands.  You may use written sources (including internet searches) to answer the questions, but the time limitations will not permit extensive searching and reading.  It will be possible to answer the questions in a sentence or two.