# Milestone 4 - Localization

"Robot localization is the process of determining where a mobile robot is located with respect to its environment." - Wiley Encyclopedia of Electrical and Electronics Engineering

### Learning Goals

After completing this milestone, you will be able to

* List and explain common localization methods.
* Construct customized simulation environment.
* Demonstrate localization in simulation.

## Step 1: Build an Indoor Environment in Simulation

### Building Editor 

Gazebo GUI has provided a built-in asset editor where you can either create your own building or import pre-constructed building resources. Follow [the tutorial](http://gazebosim.org/tutorials?cat=build_world&tut=building_editor) here to get familiar with this editor. 

### Online Resources

In addtion, there are many online resources for Gazebo. You can download and use pre-constructed buildings and building elements for your own cconvenience. For exmaple, http://data.nvision2.eecs.yorku.ca/3DGEMS/ has many pre-defined models that you can directly use in your simulations.


## Step 2: Become familiar with AMCL 

### Prerequisites

To fully understand the AMCL stack, we expect that you are able to work with the following

* [ROS topics](http://wiki.ros.org/Topics) which was covered in Milestone 1.
* [ROS services](http://wiki.ros.org/Services)
* [ROS parameters](http://wiki.ros.org/rosparam) which was covered in Milestone 1.

### The AMCL Stack

The overview of ROS AMCL can be found in [this page](http://wiki.ros.org/amcl), it lists everything that is involved in the AMCL stack.

To demonstrate how users can localize robots in any environment, ROS provided an [integrated tutorial for navigation](http://wiki.ros.org/navigation/Tutorials). For this Milestone, we only expect you to read sections 1.1 to 1.6. However, this tutorial does not demonstrate how you can make AMCL stack work with Gazebo and your own models that you created in Milestone 3. You will need to apply what you have learned from the previous Milestones. 

### Demo Project

In case some of you still feel uncertain about what needs to be done in this Milestone, there is a simple but good demo project I found online. It offers a clear example of how different components in ROS/Gazebo communicate. Feel free to use it as a reference for your own work. Here is the [link to the demo project's repo](https://github.com/WolfeTyler/ROS-Localization-Navigation-AMCL).


## Milestone Evaluation and Acceptance Criteria

To demonstrate that you have completed this Milestone, you need to be able to show (through a screen share) that you can:
* Launch Gazebo and display one of the indoor simulation environment you built.
* Launch your AMCL stack in ROS along with Gazebo.
* Execute commands which demonstrate the communication between nodes/services in your project. 
* Show on Gazebo GUI and Rviz that your robot can obtain LRF readings in the indoor environment.
* Execute a command to perform a ROS task which we will specify.
* Answer a question about the ROS architecture you are running for this Milestone DEMO.

The assessment will be time limited, so make sure your local machine is properly set up in advance, and have at least four terminal windows open and ready to execute ROS commands.  You may use written sources (including internet searches) to answer the questions, but the time limitations will not permit extensive searching and reading.  It will be possible to answer the questions in a sentence or two.